# Barcode Sequencing (BarSeq) - measuring population dynamics using multiplexed libraries of barcode-tagged *Vibrio fischeri* strains

by Hector L. Burgos

This protocol describes how to perform Barcode Sequencing (BarSeq) experiments to study *Vibrio fischeri* population dynamics when using mutant strains generated via the Sequence-Tagged-Gene-Deletion protocol published from our lab [Burgos et al (2020)](https://paperpile.com/shared/nhf9AU) and described in detail in the [Sequence-Tagged-Gene-Deletion protocol](sequence-tagged-gene-deletion.md). In summary, strains generated by this protocol will have inserted into their chromosome a scar containing a unique barcode sequence that identifies each individual strain. Mixed populations of barcoded strains can be assayed via amplicon PCR using oligos that anneal universal sequences within the barcoded scars and sequenced via Illumina sequencing platforms. These strains are versatile for probing competitive phenotypes and can be used in either *in vitro* and/or squid colonization experiments.

## I - Setting up the multiplexed population of barcode-tagged *Vibrio fischeri* strains

1. Inoculate 3 mL of LBS with the desired barcode-tagged strains and grow overnight at 25°C with aeration.

###### Next day

2. Mix 2 mL of each stationary phase culture in a 50 mL conical tube on ice.
3. Vortex well, place back on ice.
4. Spin down cells in swinging bucket rotor @ 4,700 rpm for 15 min and 4°C, then quickly but gently discard supernatant.
5. Resuspend cells in 1/10 the original volume of LBS (e.g., for 20 strains: original volume = 2 mL * 20 strains = 40 mL. 1/10 = 4 mL LBS).
6. Transfer 1.2 mL of the multiplexed population into a red-cap cryovial with 600 µl 50% glycerol (16.7% glycerol final).
7. Mix well by fully inverting vial 20 times, then freeze @ -80°C.

###### Continue protocol on same or next day (if continuing on the same day, allow mixed population to incubate @ -80°C for ≥ 30 min)

## II.A - Competitive squid colonization

Perform squid colonization following [Mandel lab protocol](squid-colonization.md) with some modifications as described below. Even though this protocol does not require using blue-white screening (β-gal assay), it is still a competitive assay as the various strains within the multiplexed population will compete against each other for the squid niche during infection.

1. Thaw ≥ 30 µl of multiplexed population on ice - harvest bacterial glob using a sterile stick and transfer into a 1.7 mL microtube.
2. Dilute 30 µl into 2.970 mL LBS (1:100 dilution).
3. Incubate @ 25°C for 1-2 hr. Record growth time: Growth time = __________
4. Set up FSIO and squid.
5. Set up inoculum plates.
6. Measure OD<sub>600</sub> of input library and calculate inoculum volume for a 3-5 x 10<sup>3</sup> CFU/mL target inoculum.

	Input Library OD<sub>600</sub> = __________            

  Inoculum volume (1.25/OD) = __________

7. Inoculate squid with the appropriate inoculum volume of input library.
8. Plate 50 µl of water from squid-treatment bowls in duplicate for inoculum counts.
9. Harvest sample from Input Library - transfer 1 mL of Input library into a 1.7 mL microtube, spin down cells @ 13,000 rpm for 2 min, aspirate and discard supernatant, and freeze at -20°C.
9. Incubate squid for 3 hr, then transfer squid into 100 mL FSIO.
10. Transfer squid into 50 mL FSIO and place back in a 12hr light/dark cycle.

###### Next day

11. Transfer squid into ~50 mL FSIO.
12. Prepare tubes for 48 hr squid harvest.
13. Count inoculum plates and record CFUs and dilution factor.
14. Harvest bacteria from inoculum plates as follows: add 1 mL 70% IO to plate, scrape colonies with a sterile cell scraper, pipette bacteria into a 1.7 mL microtube (combine samples from duplicate inoculum plates), then spin down bacteria at 13,000 rpm for 2 min and freeze cell pellet @ -20°C.
**Important:** When removing supernatant, also remove and discard excess cell volume by aspirating with pipette until a cell pellet of an approximate volume of 20-30 µl remains in sample. This is to prevent issues during gDNA extraction with the DNeasy 96-well kit (Qiagen) caused by excessively large cell pellets.

###### Next day

15. Harvest 48 hr post-infection squid samples by transferring squid into individual 1.7 mL microtubes with 700 µl of FSIO.
16. Measure luminescence using the luminometer and record RLUs (relative luminescence units).
17. Freeze squid @ -80°C.

## II.B - *In vitro* competition

Perform *in vitro* competitive growth experiment by growing mixed population in media over 15 generations as described in [Brooks et al. (2014)](https://paperpile.com/shared/jciqot). This step can be skipped if the behavior of the barcoded strains present in the mixed population during competitive growth is already known. Otherwise, it is important to make sure that any observed colonization defects in the squid are not due to an overall growth defect.

1. Thaw ≥ 30 µl of multiplexed population on ice - harvest bacterial glob using a sterile stick and transfer into a 1.7 mL microtube.
2. Dilute 30 µl into 2.970 mL LBS (1:100 dilution).
3. Incubate @ 25°C for 45 min - 1 hr. Record growth time: Growth time = __________
4. Measure OD<sub>600</sub>. Want an OD of ~0.5.

	Initial Input Library OD<sub>600</sub> = __________

5. Harvest 1 mL of Input Library as described in steps 6.4 - 6.7 below.
6. Perform *in vitro* competition as follows:

  a) Dilute 16.6 µl of input library into 3 mL of LBS (1:181 dilution) in triplicate.

  b) Incubate @ 25°C with aeration until OD<sub>600</sub> reaches initial input library OD.

  c) Dilute again as in step 1 and grow as in step 2 - after two 1:181 dilutions and growing back to the initial OD the bacteria will have duplicated 15 times (15 generations).

  d) Harvest 1 mL of cultures into 1.7 mL microtubes.

  e) Spin down cells @ 14,000 rpm for 1 - 2 min.

  f) Carefully aspirate and discard supernatant - leave behind a cell pellet smaller than ~30 µl.

  g) Freeze cell pellet @ -20°C.


## III - Processing squid samples

### A - Squid ho
